A normal heartbeat begins with a group
of specialized pacemaker cells
called the sinoatrial node
in the heart’s upper,
right chamber, or atrium.
Regular electrical impulses
from these cells cause the atria
to contract or squeeze,
pushing blood into the lower chambers,
or ventricles.
Traveling down to a junction
called the atrioventricular,
or AV node,
and on to the ventricles,
these impulses cause the
ventricles to contract.
This pumps blood out to the lungs
and the rest of the body.
A ventricular premature beat, or VPB,
is an extra heartbeat caused
by electrically unstable
muscles in the ventricles.
Also called premature ventricular contractions,
or ventricular premature contractions,
VPB’s occur in almost everyone,
sometimes rarely and sometimes often.